Automated Assignment of Human Readable Descriptions (AHRD)
==========================================================

Protein function has often been transferred from characterized proteins to
novel proteins based on sequence similarity, e.g. using the best BLAST hit. To
assign human readable descriptions to predicted proteins we developed a new
program called Automatic assignment of human readable descriptions (AHRD). We
aim to select descriptions that are concise and informative, precise in regard
to function and use standard nomenclature. AHRD scores BLAST hits taken from
searches against different databases on the basis of the trust put into these
databases and the local alignment quality. The BLAST hit descriptions are
tokenized into informative words and a lexical analysis scores these tokens
according to their frequency and the quality of the BLAST hits they occur in.
Shared tokens with Gene-Ontology Annotations increase the description-scoring
in order to use standard nomenclature where possible. Finally the best scoring
description is assigned.

1. Requirements:

AHRD is a Java-Program which requires Java 1.5 or higher.


2. Usage:

All AHRD-Inputs are passed to AHRD in a single YML-File.
See ahrd_input.yml for details.

Basically AHRD needs a FASTA-File of amino acid sequences and three different
files conatining the results from BLAST searches in the three databases:
Uniprot/trEMBL, Uniprot/Swissprot and TAIR10.

Additionally the parameters can be set manually (NOT RECOMMENDED).

An example AHRD-call is given in ahrd_test_run.sh:

java -Xmx2g -jar ahrd.jar ahrd_input.jar

3. Recommended BLAST-Search:

For your query proteins you should start three independent BLAST searches in
the three different databases mentioned above:

blastall -p blastp -i proteins.fasta -o swissprot_blastout.pairwise -d swissprot.fasta -e 0.0001 -v 200 -b 200 -m 0

Three different example results are given in test_input/.

Have Fun!
